Okay.
Yeah.
So great.
We managed to set up everything.
We have a demo, so we needed to do this.
So without further ado, I'm very happy that Olga is here to tell us a little bit about the ISU case and what it's done.
A little bit of less time, so please condense it as much as you can, but take your time.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
I will give my best that we just in time arrived to finish off this lot.
But let us start.
My name is Horace Koch and I'm working for DB Suster, the IT company of Deutsche Bahn.
And I'm the product owner of IoT. We works with applied IoT.
And if I make not IoT, then I'm a member of Aka Open Source of Bitcoin, the chairman take a look.
Digital association, Bitcoin and pushing forward the open source ID.
And some words about my employer.
The visitor is a 100 person subsidiary of Deutsche Bahn AG and is the digitalization partner for all Deutsche Bahn companies.
And we have currently 7000 employees and managed over 500 projects and services in the cloud.
And if you are looking for a new challenge, please take a look at dbd.com.
Okay, let's start.
What is Internet of Things?
Here's the definition from the Wikipedia, but I would like to describe it with my own words.
The aim of things, the aim of Internet of Things is to measure some conditions in the real world and to link and evaluate it.
And this information and ultimately to derive the measures from it.
And we have unfortunately only a little time, but I will try to give you a very deep insight in practical usage of IoT and for example,
so we realize a practical project in this talk.
We would like to measure the air quality inside of this room.
And yeah, I think also it's a quite funny topic.
And yeah, we will touch the theme.
Where can I get the sensors?
How can I transmit the data?
And finally, how will be this process stored and visualized and so on.
So let's start with the sensors.
Where do the sensors come from?
Yeah, after understanding the customer's problem and determining suitable matrix,
the question arise which sensors can be used to reliable determine the matrix.
And normally we try to buy this from the market, use standard sensors,
but from time to time there are no sensors available for this topic.
And then we give contracts to our DB company, DB-Con T, or DB System Technique,
or maybe external partners to develop the sensoric after our specifications.
And from time to time we make some in-house development and for this we use some sensor platforms.
For example, other foods, fever, V-MOS, or Tinkerforge.
For our project to measure the air quality inside of this room, we use the Tinkerforge
and take a look inside the portfolio from Tinkerforge and found two interesting sensors.
One is the air quality bricklet.
This sensor measures the air temperature pressure, humidity, and an air quality index.
The air quality index measures some gases and other values and gives us a calculated value for this.
And the second sensor is a particulate metal bricklet.
This measures the particles inside of the air, for example fine dust.
Both sensors are connected to the master brick and the master brick makes the communication
between my laptop and both sensors and we can now take a look.
I connect it to my laptop and hopefully you can see this.
We fire up the Tinkerforge bricklet fever, making a connect and we see all the bricklets and bricks.
They are connected together and we can see some values from it.
Without code, some lines or something, you can make first analysis.
Is this possible to measure with this sensoric the right values?
And is this worth to go further on?
Okay, let's go back to the presentation.
The next step is connectivity.
How was the data sent to our back end systems?
And for this, there are a lot of transmission protocols in the IoT environment available.
Here are the four important protocols.
But it's really difficult to take the right one because some need further infrastructure.
For example, gateways or other costs, monthly pay or something.
And you also must look for data, for example, bandwifes, coverage, energy consumption and so on.
For our example, we only use the Wi-Fi connection of my laptop.
So it's really easy.
Normally, we use NeoBand IoT because we can't use the standard one.
And NeoBand IoT based on LTE is more or less available.
Okay, we use the MQTT protocol.
MQTT is more or less a producer-consumer model.
The producer writes some data into a topic.
On the message broker, a topic is directory structure also.
And the consumers can subscribe exactly this directory, this topic.
And if the producer sends some data, the consumer can read it.
Or got it pushed from the message broker immediately.
Okay, we use AWS Core IoT for this.
And there is a product IoT Core.
And IoT Core is a perfect MQTT broker for us because it's full-managed and co-ops, auto-skating.
And so on, and you have to work with this.
Okay, then let's take a closer look into the code of this.
I'm not a programmer, but it's so easy, anybody can work with this.
Tinkerforge has a lot of examples, and it's more or less intelligent copy and paste.
You take an example, you write a unique ID for every sensor,
so you can connect more air quality index sensors together or something.
Anybody has his own ID, imports some libraries, and here is the important part.
We take our certificates for the MQTT protocol communication,
and we create two callback functions, one for the air quality sensor and one for the particular meta sensor.
And here you can see it's easy, one call to libraries,
and you get all information from the sensors.
Here we have a little bit formatting, print out, or write it to MQTT.
The same for the particular meta sensors.
It's really easy, there are examples everywhere available for this.
And we can fire up this.
We start this Python program, and here we can see the values.
The values will be formatted into a JSON format and then sent to our MQTT program.
Okay, let's come back to Fing Sport.
Fing Sport is a relatively new software, it started in 2016,
but in shortly the time it's more or less the market leader in open source IOT platforms.
One question around, who has any heard from Fing Sport?
One, two, three.
Okay, perfectly.
It's an open source software with open Apache license,
and it is all in one solution.
All aspects of IOT is available, API agree,
so it's really easy to configure your system and so on,
reporting, scheduling, visualization, and so on.
And the best thing is the root chain.
The root chain is a little bit like Node-RED,
and there you can configure whatever you want to control a backend system.
For example, if the error is too bad, then open the window.
Okay, next step, it's always a good idea if you use an open source software
to take a look at an open hub.
And here are...
Oh, five minutes left.
Okay, it's a good software, it's perfect, insecure.
It's a microservice architecture,
and it's really easy to install it.
And I will show you a little demo.
Okay, here's our Fing Sport system.
I fired up, and first we must create an integration.
Integration is the part to subscribe an MQTT topic from the pro-car.
Maybe you remember.
I prepared it before, so I don't make it now.
And the next way to create a converter,
a converter is for preparation of the data.
Sometimes the data are in grad Fahrenheit,
and you would like to do it in grad Celsius or something,
so you can prepare the data for the storage and so on.
Okay, dashboard.
So we try to create a new dashboard first.
It's insert, and we add a new widget, temperature, temperature,
and a quality sensor.
We select the device from which we would like to visualize the data
and which data case we want, a quality index,
and for the first step we would like the temperature.
And go on, and so we create our first widget on our dashboard,
and this you should be repeat sometimes, and then it looks so.
Okay, I let it running, and we take a look in three minutes on it.
Because the system needs some minutes to measure the correct values,
the sensor is a little bit of self-calibrating.
Okay, we come back to our presentation,
and I would like to speak about some use cases.
From time to time we make some IoT hackathon,
for example with our customers to better understand their requirements
or to find possible solution very quickly and to make some tests with this.
And from time to time we make this also for HR to get new employees
or to work with studies, for example,
some digital resummon school or similar events.
Okay, here's an example of our environmental sensor.
For example, this is measuring temperature, humidity, pressure,
and the best is it measures the particles.
The count of the particles in the air and the mass of the particles
and vibrations.
And why we make this,
some employees, some colleagues of digital signal boxes told us
maybe there's a connection between pollution, fine dust and so on,
and air hours occurred in our signal boxes.
And I have here a screenshot, it's really actual.
Did anybody has ID, what is wrong with this?
Okay, it's difficult to see.
New year, exactly.
20 minutes after New Year's Eve we have a massive growing up,
defined us in our signal boxes.
Nobody knows how can it be.
At the moment 300 sensors are rolled out,
but 50, 15, 20 signal boxes shows this.
And now we have to make some evaluation, how can it be,
and maybe it's a good idea to power off the air condition
or the ventilation system or something,
or take a look at the windows open, what is wrong with this.
And here is another example, another use case, PESC.
Okay, PESC control, we can measure the red visits
and so we can reduce the amount of very toxic baits.
And another example, Samurai,
things what is a perfect open source software
if you like to realize IoT project really cost efficiency.
Okay, thank you very much.
APPLAUSE
We don't have time for questions, but I do want to see the diagram.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
What does it mean?
Please?
Yeah.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
This is below 50, it's really good.
But I think I'm not sure how long does it take
until the sensor is recalibrating.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think the air is too poor for this value,
so maybe we should wait half an hour or so.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And this thing was bought.
Yeah, is it a bit like this?
Yeah, the next thing you do is get up.
Basically, it's a competition to open up and all the other stuff.
Now, open up is more or less...